---
layout: post
title:  "Rock n' Roll Hall of Fame"
date:   2018-12-01 06:24:19 -0400
categories: 
permalink: projects/rock-hall-of-fame
featured_image: uploads/Rock-1.jpg
---
**Program:** Rock 'n Roll Hall of Fame Weatherization

The Rock and Roll Hall of Fame located in Cleveland commissioned Evans Energy to assist with a building energy audit in 2014. We found a “one of a kind building in a one of a kind place”.  Designed by architect I.M. Pei, the glass structure rises 160 feet above the Lake Erie shoreline.  

In the Summer, the South facing glass absorbs solar heat from the sun, which requires two air conditioning chillers to operate.  Window Film developed by 3M, was installed to reduce the solar load.  As a result, one chiller now operates to cool the building.  
In the winter, cold dry air from the frozen lake blast the building.  This requires humidification from the heating system to protect wood instruments and artifacts from aging.  The electric cost spiked from the use of electric humidifiers.  These units were replaced by new humidification technology resulting in a 71% reduction in energy.

Thermal images indicate heat is escaping the building.  Foam insulation was pumped into the red areas, to seal up the building envelope.  The employees are much more comfortable. 

This 5-story tall ventilation louver was designed to be aesthetic to the architectural appearance of the building. High pressure winds from the lake over powered the structure causing pipes to freeze.  Working from a barge on the water, we removed the louver and sealed the shaft behind it.  The valuables in the building are warm, safe and dry.

Part of the investigation included, cutting access openings in walls and ducts to find air leakage in exterior walls over water. Our team discovered areas never seen since the building was constructed over 20 years ago.  This was part of our due diligence to develop a solution. 

